[Music]
here are eight signs you're suffering
from depression without even knowing it
depression is a serious matter that
unfortunately doesn't get talked about
enough simply feeling a little sad can
make us think that we're depressed but
that's not always the case
or is it let's find out what signs are
hinting that you might actually be
suffering from the plague of the 21st
century but before we start don't forget
to subscribe to our channel and hit that
notification bell so you won't miss any
of our new videos counting down from
number eight you constantly feel down
and tired feeling a little down in the
dumps from time to time is completely
normal
we're only human and we all have our bad
days after all but when you start
feeling hopeless and don't want to get
out of bed for days that's where it gets
into dangerous territory according to
experts if your lack of energy lasts for
days on end
even though your routine hasn't changed
much and you feel tired as soon as you
wake up this may be your body's Way of
telling you that you are in fact
depressed analyze your current situation
thoroughly and take it seriously as
constant fatigue is one of the main
symptoms of depression number 7 your
self-esteem has hit rock bottom with
depression and constant fatigue you
might start seeing yourself as useless
you'll constantly dwell on your past
failures and your mind will be flooded
with memories of every stupid mistake
you've ever made you'll probably see
them as proof that you're completely
worthless an especially serious problem
of depression that should never be taken
lightly are suicidal thoughts remember
that there is help out there
you can call 1-800
1-800 seven eight four two four three
three or 1-800 two
7:3 talk 1-800 273 8 255
if these hotlines don't serve your
country your local emergency number can
help you out as well number six you have
concentration and memory problems
according to doctors when you're
depressed your concentration suffers big
time till you start forgetting about
important things and have trouble
remembering names or other details
listening to someone talk or reading a
book becomes a challenge since you can't
focus on what's going on making
decisions is incredibly difficult too
since you just can't put your finger on
anything or ignore this hopeless feeling
inside of you
however mental fog alone may not signal
depression if out of all of these signs
only this one applies to you chances are
that depression isn't really the issue
at hand number 5 you have trouble
sleeping another part of your life that
significantly changes when you have
depression are your sleeping patterns
this can be in the form of either
insomnia or sleeping for longer hours
when you're suffering from depression
you'll crave more sleep even after a
full night's rest you have no energy and
feel like you could spend the whole day
in bed and it's not like a fun day in
bed surrounding buy snacks binge
watching your favorite show we're
talking about lying in bed all day doing
nothing with no desire to get up if this
sounds familiar to you consider it
another red flag that you need to get
some help
number four your weight changes with all
the emotional roller coasters you go
through when you have depression your
appearance is bound to change and the
main thing that depression affects is
your weight it can go either way to you
all of the sudden gain several pounds or
your weight drops drastically
this could be due to constantly feeling
starved no matter how much you eat or
you stop feeling hunger at all
just like with your emotional state your
eating habits become unstable
specialists say that if there's an
unintentional change of more than five
percent of your body weight within a
month it could be a sign of depression
number three nothing brings you pleasure
your favorite food TV show or video game
that once brought you so much joy is now
just sort of meth even people that you
adore and love hanging out with don't
seem to do it for you anymore
you're constantly bored tired and have
no desire to do your lifelong hobby or
meet up with your best friend another
area you may lose interest in is your
sex life symptoms of major depression
include decreased sex drive and even
impotence the key here is to find out
whether there's a serious and steady
reason for it and if there's not then
it's most likely depression that's to
blame
number two you experience mood swings
when you're depressed you constantly
feel sad anxious or irritated and you
probably can't even explain why you
suddenly become extremely short-tempered
with a lack of basic tolerance
everything and everyone annoys you to no
end this can get especially scary when
it turns into reckless behavior or
substance abuse as an attempt to get rid
of all these emotions but it's not like
you're just ticked off all the time you
go through mood swings you can go from a
fit of rage to a puddle of tears in a
blink of an eye rapid breathing sweating
and extreme nervousness can be
especially alarming symptoms of anxiety
and panic attacks associated with severe
depression number one your health
deteriorates again emotional outbursts
and a constant feeling of hopelessness
throat not only your weight out of whack
but your overall health - it's really
common for depressed people to suddenly
start experiencing aches and pains most
frequently and the joints are back
digestive problems are a huge concern in
this situation - especially when they
aren't brought on by something obvious
like something you ate and these
symptoms don't go away with usual
medical treatment either because your
mental state is involved the earlier you
can deal with your depression the easier
it'll be for you to get back to good
health so if at least three or four of
these signs hit home for you it most
likely means that you have some form of
depression
basically the more signs are showing the
more depressed you are don't forget that
to be a symptom of depression all of
these conditions should be continuous
not just one off day so now that we
found out that it is in fact a problem
the important question is what's the
treatment for depression and how can it
be prevented in the future however there
are some things you can do to make the
process of healing a bit faster
according to psychotherapist Sean Grover
there are steps you can take in three
areas of your life to make your mental
state better the first thing to take
care of is your body start doing
30-minute workouts at least three times
a week get at least seven hours of sleep
a night and add more of your favorite
foods to your diet especially sugary
ones taking care of yourself this way
will certainly make you feel much better
the second and equally important part is
your mind try to explore the world
around you as if you never have before
enjoy some poetry spend time with
yourself take new classes and open up
your mind to new experiences
sure it'll be difficult at first with
your loss of interest but the more you
do it the easier it'll get to develop
genuine excitement there are tons of
opportunities around you so go grab them
up finally your spirit should also get a
dose of treatment too
the best thing you can do here is
meditation through it
you can learn to understand and listen
to yourself on a deeper level plus after
a good meditation session all of the
depressing thoughts disappear opening up
more space for new experiences and
knowledge in your head there are also a
couple of methods to prevent possible
depression a study published in the New
England Journal of Medicine found that
some forms of depression can be treated
with natural substances this is
especially true of so-called
seasonal depression which can be held by
taking a lot of vitamin D however
consultation with your doctor is a must
experts also recommend to start seeing a
doctor earlier and doing it regularly
after all any illness is easier to
combat if it's observed from the get-go
so if you found out that you have
depression don't worry it's a problem
that can and should be resolved plus the
path you have to take to get out of it
will help you find out more about
yourself and appreciate not only your
own uniqueness but also the people and
the world around you and that's not so
bad is it you shouldn't go through this
alone though so see a doctor immediately
they'll know how to make the path easier
and shorter for you
if you suspect that your friend or
family member is battling depression
provide a shoulder for them to cry on
and make sure that they get help it may
seem like it's something you can deal
with on your own but the truth is that
this condition is not to be taken
lightly and must be treated with the
help of a doctor
in what about you do you have any
methods of your own on how to fight
depression tell us in the comments below
don't forget to click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life